This is another problem for me. I just don't know Leibniz. I mean, I just don't know Leibniz.
Like I know the bumper sticker Wikipedia version of Leibniz. Like that's truly it. So I have no, like the Husserl I'm a little bit better on, but not a lot. So it's, that's part of the hard thing is I toyed around with this idea the other night. I was like, look, if I get another sabbatical anytime soon, I might just fucking try to become a Deleuze expert. You know what I mean? Like, like, you know, in other words, just like really, really read all of this stuff and, and learn it, you know, like what I'm doing.
Like what I'm doing with constitutional law right now, which is just so much fun. You know, it's just like, there's no reason for it. I'm not going to write anything about it. It's not going anywhere, but it's just like, okay, you know, I'm at a certain phase of my life where like, why the fuck not? If I want to learn it, then I'm going to fucking learn it. Right.
But then it has to be, yeah. So it has to be Deleuze and friends, you know? So it's like, it would be Leibniz. Yeah.
Allison Wonderland expert. Yeah. Exactly. Like Deleuze is like the syllabus giver. Deleuze gives you the syllabus.
Yeah. But there's too much stuff with Deleuze. I mean, it's almost as bad as Derrida. It's not quite as bad as Derrida, but it's almost, it's like, I told you guys, I mean, I know I told Nathaniel about this back in grad school.
I did this one of the best independent studies I ever did. And with, uh, Jeff was, uh, I did Deleuze and interlocutor or Derrida and interlocutors in which I like, uh, I did like Structure Sign and Play and then went and read the Lévi-Strauss that he takes up there.
But I read like three books by Lévi-Strauss, like, you know, again, I wasn't a, it's not like I mastered all of Lévi-Strauss's structuralism, but I read three books and then went back to the Structure Sign and Play.
And so that was like one chunk was just that S and that's just a fucking essay, you know? And I did that with a couple of different things. And among the things that I learned was like the interlocutors that he engages with are smart as fuck. Like they're really like before doing it, I had this kind of dismissive relationship to the Lévi-Strauss's, the JL Austin's, the whoever he was taking up. It's like, Oh, Derrida is clearly sort of smarter than them or whatever. And then you read this stuff and it's like, man, these things are really sophisticated.
Really sophisticated, really nuanced and really smart. And when I go back and read what Derrida is doing, it sounds a hell of a lot less like a critique.
And much of which, and much of it, I'm like, even the Derrida seems like a little ham fisted at times.
It's like, hold on, that's not exactly like, you know, and that to me was incredibly instructive.
Just Derrida and his interlocutors. And we were, I was only able to do like three or four essays because there's, you know, essays of all of Derrida's oeuvre of shit.
Like imagine just Deleuze and his interlocutors.
Right.
Difference in repetitions interlocutors. Forget about Deleuze.
It's just, you just spend five years. Like you just spend five years on difference in repetition.
Yeah, but talk about style. That would be so interesting. I mean, I would love to.
It would be so cool.
Yeah, because I mean, there have been, wait, we have seen so many different styles of engagement from Deleuze with, with his interlocutors.
And it would be so interesting to actually have a sense, because I haven't had a sense of any of his fucking interlocutors.
Like he brings up people and I'm like, oh yeah, sure.
Like Costell was like the closest for me.
Who the fuck is that?
I was like, okay, yes, like I get this.
But, um, but I mean, so I don't know.
I'm not exactly picking up on the differences in style across, across the engagements because I don't have, you know,
that foundation to bring to bear on it, you know?
And doesn't it make you feel, I mean, I've gone through this like incredible inadequacy feeling in,
particularly in reading this book, especially where I'm like, I just don't know.
I don't know the stuff he's drawing from.
And it just feels like it would take an exorbitant amount of work.
Like Alice in Wonderland was great because it's like, oh cool.
I spent six hours and I've read these two novels, right?
Like that was easy, you know?
But then he starts bringing in like another book, like even another Lewis Carroll one.
And I'm like, fuck man, don't keep going.
Don't go deeper on the hits with Lewis Carroll, man.
Just give me the stairway to heaven, right?
I don't want to like side B of Led Zeppelin three, you know?
So it's, it's, I find that to be like frustrating as hell.
Like living in the space of, to me, I think of as sort of amateur, like amateur philosophy.
Like that's always sort of what I thought, what I think that I am.
That's a hard place to live, you know?
And, and, and, and to maintain that kind of humility that's, I think important, but also
the kind of confidence to be able to say anything, you know, that, that's the hard thing about
rhetoric is that you got, you have to live, or at least for me, my version of it, you have
to live in this kind of the liminal membrane space of like, I'm not an expert.
And so that produces, that should produce a lot of humility.
Like, I don't get it.
I don't understand it, but I still want to fucking say something, right?
I still want to engage it.
So I don't want to be like silenced by the humility.
So I don't know.
Amateurism's not easy.
Well, speaking about oeuvres and style, what, what did you make of the end of 15 where he
turns to Nietzsche?
I always find Deleuze's treatments of Nietzsche so touching, by the way.
I do too.
And I'll say the Apollonian Dionysian stuff where he, that part where, yeah, I mean, like.
I remember really more like the last couple of lines where he was talking about like, you
know, that's a style and an oeuvre instead of a mixture of, in the body.
It's like, I was trying to figure out the way that I can contort that quotation to allow
it to be an epigraph for the book, right?
Like, cause it's like, oh yeah, it's a style is, that's the, that's the thing.
I just couldn't figure out a good way of doing that.
You know, and I love the way there, and he does this in other places where he, he, he blends
the biographical really quite seamlessly with the conceptual, with Nietzsche's conceptual
work, you know, where like Nietzsche, it seems, became insane and died of general paralysis,
a corporeal syphilitic mixture.
But the pathway which this event followed, this time, you know, and the sort of going
on with that, like, I agree with you.
It is kind of very care, like caring.
Yeah.
But his essay on Nietzsche in Pure Eminence, I find to be very similar.
But I mean, for me, at least whenever we get to those moments, I'm like, oh, I can breathe
because I'm familiar with this stuff.
Like, it's just, you know, I like, I get it.
I, it resonates, it clicks, you know, just makes me think if I could do that with the other
stuff, then maybe like, you could really spend your whole career learning how to read a book,
like one book, like Logic of Sense.
It doesn't matter what the book is.
Like, I'm going to spend 30 years working.
It sounds like a character in a Sartre novel or something like that, like, who spent, you
remember the guy in, what is it, in Nausea, who reads, who goes to the library and starts
with A and like, is just going to read, you know, it sounds like, or a Borges kind of thing.
Yeah, I was just thinking Borges.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's like, I'm going to spend my whole life trying to really understand one, one book.
But of course we don't do that.
And the result is that we kind of half-ass understand a bunch of books.
But yeah.
Cool.
Well, sounds like you say up a, an itinerary for your next decade or so of life.
Right, exactly.
I mean, I just, I don't know how interesting, I mean, would, would you guys want to do that
with any book?
Yeah.
Any book.
And in fact.
Like, take the book and just read the stuff that.
That would be so much fun.
Prostituted.
I mean, I, I would, if I could, if I could figure out how to make it professionally viable.
Oh, why not this one?
I'll do this one.
Yeah.
I mean, in some ways, like, I wouldn't have to, I would have to like, it would have to be
a bit of a roll of a dime.
I have to like, make sure it wasn't something super shitty.
Like, there's a whole number of them that I would probably do, like, enjoy doing that
with.
I mean, it's like, it's not, you're never going to just stay in the book.
It's going to, the tendrils are going to be infinite.
Right?
Oh, of course.
Of course.
I actually think as we're talking about it, that it might really be the major determinant,
one of the major determining forces of why I got into Deleuze was because I had been reading
Kafka since I was a kid.
And his Kafka book, you know, like, this major philosopher that everybody, or like, really,
seemingly really smart people 25 years ago thought was really smart.
And he wrote a book on Kafka and I read it and it like, talked about a lot of stuff that
I was familiar with.
And I was like, that's my guy.
It might be that simple.
Identification.
Well, it was interesting that you said, like, you could breathe again when he got to the
Nietzsche stuff, but all, I mean, because I'm now editing the Hegel podcasts and I actually
had the opportunity to bring this up in one of my undergrad classes about like, you know,
the expertise that we supposedly bring to this stuff is our willingness to feel stupid and
ham-fisted with stuff.
Come on, John, where's your, put on your diving mask, don't.
I'm going through a bad, I'm going through a bad one recently.
I really am.
Like, I'm just like, I don't fucking know anything.
I really am going through one.
You know how you go through those sometimes?
And I'm very much in that.
And I don't, I don't go through it a lot, but I'm very much like I was, I was watching
a, a, a talk last night, a Google talk, like a talk at Google by, um, oh fuck, I'm going
to, Larry, I can't remember his name, but he's a constitutional law scholar at Harvard.
What?
No, no.
Um, really smart guy who's advocating for all kinds of, um, political reform and shit.
And the guy is just so goddamn smart.
And I mean, I really enjoyed the thing, but it also just made me feel so incompetent relative.
Listen, I, I, I realized that I'm not a first amendment constitutional law.
I don't care about that, but I'm like, I could not do the equivalent of what he is doing
here at Google for the sort of political sphere.
I could not do that for rhetoric or, I mean, even for rhetoric, right?
Like I just don't have that facility and that depth, depth and breadth of awareness and attentiveness.
Like, so yeah, I'm going through a, you know, I don't really know.
That's a style of engagement.
You cultivated a different style of engagement.
I guess.
I mean, that would be an amateur style of engagement.
It's frustrating sometimes.
Yeah.
Also, why shouldn't you be a scholar at the surface and not depth?
I mean.
Yeah, no, I mean, I know.
I think you gave me shit for exactly that on a text thread.
Like two days ago.
Well, that was two days ago, man.
That was a whole different affective milieu.
I knew I can't, I can't be expected to sustain, but it is, it does.
Yeah.
So, but that's, that's my own idiosyncrasy obviously right now, but, but it does feel like
in, in the case of these chapters, I would say, I feel like I'm missing some, some really
substantial elements that don't enable me to think in concert with this in ways that, because
I kept going and I had read, I mean, I've read, well, I've read chunks of all of this
before, but, um, I just was like, oh, I can't wait till we get to the next ones because that's
going to be way more fun because I have some familiarity, right?
Like they, they, they, like the, even the Nietzsche, the Nietzsche stuff where I can breathe.
It's like, ah, okay.
I understand a little bit more what the fuck he's talking about.
I remember, like eight years ago when we read this, you had the same sigh of relief when
we got to the 18th series of three images of fly.
That's even worse.
It's eight years.
I haven't fucking improved.
Well, I don't know if it's better or worse.
It's more effectively intense now than it was eight years ago.
Yeah.
Well, I just, I feel like you're trying to become kind of what the, what Deleuze would
not want you to become, you know, like, I don't understand why you're, you're, you're pained
over this because if we think about all of the ways in which individuality is framed,
you know, like metaphorically kind of in terms of like the language that he's using to, to
talk about it.
I mean, we get things like, like theater and nomad and individual in general and never, never
a sense of like expert or, you know, definitive or, you know, or, um, script, you know, we don't
get that.
We get, we get play, we get play and we get experiment, right?
Um, experimentation, right?
So I don't know why you're trying to become the thing that's not, that there's really no
room for in this universe.
Although, but think about that.
There's an extraordinary expertise that goes beyond the, the claim to not need expertise,
right?
Like, I mean, yeah, so, uh, so that's, so that's part of it.
And I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to get there.
It's just, I just am feeling like a loser cause I haven't, you know, so it's not like
I'm going to go do the work.
It's not like I'm really going to spend those five years reading Leibniz or, you know, or
the equivalent or Husserl or others.
But I don't know.
I mean, so you guys both instantly were like, that sounds like that'd be great fun.
Right.
Um, I just, I don't have that immediate response to that.
That sounds like that'd be just work.
Oh my God.
That sounds awesome because I mean, in some ways it takes out, it takes out a lot of like
the guessing work that goes into like trying to figure out what you should be following
next, you know, like the direct, it takes out directions and it's kind of like, it gives
it all to you.
It's like right there.
Yeah.
Just look at the index.
What's the next thing on the index list?
Deleuze gave you the reading list for your comps.
I don't know about y'all, but I loved preparing for my comps.
I know I did too.
Me too.
But we had to write the exam list.
Deleuze did not write the exam list for us.
Yeah, exactly.
This is like, Deleuze is going to write a way better exam list than I'm ever going to
write.
Right.
So.
I'm just going to.
Obviously.
We should.
Yeah.
It's an interesting idea for the next iteration of whatever we do, reading group podcast or whatever
it is, might be something like that, the X and its interlocutors, right?
Or X and its source texts or whatever.
Right.
Like, that might be a cool way of thinking of how to organize.
Well, it would definitely give us a trajectory from project to project.
So, like, if we said, look, whatever we read next, it's coming from here, right?
And whatever we read after that is coming from what we read next.
Right.
And that would be, you know, interesting.
So Nathaniel has already said if he were to do that, he would pick this book.
What would you, what book would you pick, Caddy?
Oh, I, you know, I think I would actually go in terms of Bart, probably the, probably the
autobiography because, you know, he sprinkles that with just, I mean, it's just that kind
of, like, learned sprinkling that is totally informing the whole thing, but doesn't have to necessarily
be pained over.
And it's like, I, I would love that.
I would love that.
That would be amazing.
I would love to become an expert on that quote unquote autobiography.
That'd be amazing.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
Five years though.
Like you can, you can do, I mean, once you get tenure, you can do that, right?
Like it is, it's, it's viable.
And then at the end of that, you write your like comprehensive something or other, I guess,
or yeah, that would actually be really cool.
I mean, you could do that and you'd be the Bart, you'd be the Bart autobiography girl.
Like, you know, you would be the expert on Bart's autobiography, right?
Like you and maybe two other people or something like, yeah, I'm not a Bart scholar, but I
know the fuck out of this book.
That'd be amazing.
I would actually understand.
Just understanding it.
Like feeling like you understand, like for instance, you know, I've taught signature event
context in virtually every graduate class that I've taught for 20 years.
And it's only in the last two or three that I'm like, I understand every word, every move.
Like I got it.
Like it's, I could, I could teach it right now, like off the, just off the top of my head
without any, you know, just because I've done it so, so much.
And it's such an incredibly cool feeling to feel like I've got something like mastery,
you know, over, over this.
And that's what, 10 pages, right?
Like over this 10 page text.
And it took me 20 years to get there, you know, I'm like, okay, so that's what I got.
I got signature event, not Derrida, signature event context.
Like that.
So, you know.
As you just said, it was fun and it feels good.
Oh, no, no, it's, it's great.
I mean, it is, it is really great.
And feeling like I can explain it, any questions anyone has at any level, like whether it's
sort of, you know, entry level questions about it or like expert level, like I feel like
I could answer any question about that, you know.
It's one of the reasons I'm loving writing on The Phaedrus because I feel like, you know,
I've taught it three years in a row.
I've written on it.
I've, you know, like, I mean, I, I, I'm not there, but I can feel myself working
Myself working toward that.
Whereas like, I'm just gaining a certain kind of intimacy with the thing where I, you
know, I can follow the threads, you know, forward, backwards to the right to, I mean, up, down.
Yeah.
But, you know, but then I replay those pharmacies.
It's like, yeah, I thought I could.
Right.
Exactly.
That's what it means to follow the threads.
I mean, that's, that is, that's one of the places that what I'm saying falls apart is
that notion.
I mean, I think that your, your terminology of intimacy is way better than the terminology
of expertise that I was using of like knowing everything.
You know, it is much more of intimacy, familiarity, comfort, you know, those kinds of terms are
way better describe, describe that.
And I mean, I guess, you know, a text such as this for me, I just live in this uncomfortable
space of trying to cobble something together, but always having this background fear that
I'm just making shit up, right?
Like this back, like that I'm not getting it, right?
That I am not being careful in my intimacy.
I'm being simply appropriative.
But isn't intimacy, don't you ever, only ever get to intimacy by bumbling your way there?
I mean, I, I don't know.
I'm single, man.
You bumble your way into some kind of.
I am a fucking bumblebee over here.
I don't know.
I don't have any idea.
Although I just had a thought and going back to that little bit on Nietzsche and especially
the, the, the bit on style of, of one's, um, collective works.
And we were talking about, I mean, intimacy is another way of talking about the way that
Deleuze has his, Deleuze has an intimate relationship with, with Nietzsche.
And I think he also has one with, I mean, um, I mean, who else would you say he has an intimate
relationship with?
I mean, I think he's sort of like spurred by Artaud, but he doesn't have an intimate
relationship with him.
Spinoza.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
But I would say Nietzsche above all else.
And you know, like you can see it in the, like in the, in the care of like that, that
intertwining of the, the, the biographical and the conceptual.
And I think that's where it really comes out.
And in some ways that might give us a sense of this, this book as in some ways, sort of
like a, um, uh, an experiment in the intimacy in, in Deleuze's intimacy or developing, or, um,
what's the infinitive of, of, uh, intimacy to make intimate.
To infinitive?
To, yes.
To bumble.
To intimate?
To, yes, it's definitely a bumble word, whatever that word is, right?
Yeah.
To care.
To care, to, to touch, I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
To intertwine, yeah, to intertwine.
And then we would have to read that, um, that buggering line from, uh, from Deleuze.
I'm wondering quite, so.
This is another thing I'm wondering, so, again, now I'm turning this all about me.
Um, but like, I remember, uh, um, for the longest time, and I think you took the first
class where for the longest time I never wrote about Nietzsche, like, and, and the reason
I never wrote about it is because that is something that does feel very intimate and very personal
and literally has been since I was 16 years old, you know, and, um, and I, and it was very
difficult to teach that class.
I remember because it just felt like, this is sort of, because it felt objectifying.
Like, I'm treating it like it's just this book on the shelf, like every other book.
And it's like, I don't have that relationship to these things.
These are constitutive of what it means to think for me.
Um, and to treat it as if there's just this quotable quote or this argument that he's making or
this point he's proving is like, it just felt so, uh, coarse and crass, right?
Um, but I'm also, I'm realizing now, but I've gotten over that, right?
And I write about Nietzsche and that's something that's part of the itinerary and it's just another
thing now.
Um, but I don't write about Deleuze.
Like I've never written about Deleuze, you know, and, uh, at all, right?
And I was like, and I was just sort of realizing that recently of when I'm starting to think of
the chunks that I'm going to be putting together in this, the thing that I sent you guys of
like, I don't have a chunk on Deleuze like, um, and, uh, partly like, I don't know what the fuck I
would say.
Like, I don't even know how to begin saying anything other than all I can say is I've been
reading it for 20 years and it's really important to me, but I don't know what that means.
And, you know, um, in terms of certainly for me, like transmitting a sensibility or a disposition
or an orientation or a way of, a way of thinking sort of experimentally, but precisely with
experimentation, you know?
Um, that's funny because, uh, oh, sorry.
Go ahead.
Continue.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, it's just funny because, um, I actually, so, uh, Casey's one of the series editors of
the, um, for, you know, where my book is going.
Uh, and he reached out just to kind of be like, how's it going?
You know, not, not in a, like a confrontational way or anything, but just kind of like, hey.
We're in the pages, we're in the pages.
Yeah.
And, um, I mentioned, I was like, wow, you know, I just finished this chapter and, and,
and Aaron Manning was great, but I also had a moment with Deleuze and that was, that was
really great.
And he gave me, he gave me great advice, which was, you know, like, don't, with Deleuze,
like, don't feel like you have to write, write to and with Deleuze so much as like, do what
John was doing in the article version of the imitation chapter where you're not citing Deleuze
like Harley at all, but you're, you're doing Deleuze.
Like you are, it is how you are putting this thing together.
And I thought that was really, that was really good advice.
Um, no, but he's right.
And that's what I've always done is very indirect, like very, you know, it's not, there's no citation
of it.
There's just like, I'm going to attempt to do you, you're quite right.
I mean, and that's, that's how my relationship in terms of writing has, has been with Deleuze.
It's so, so informative and, and, and foundational for everything that I'm doing.
And yet I don't talk about him at all.
That's something that maybe I just need to write about, not writing about what you're
writing about.
That just seems like total intimacy.
Like that is pure intimacy in my mind.
Like not writing.
Having sex with someone else?
It's like, I love my, I love my, I love my wife so much that I'm going to go sleep with
my neighbor.
But I'm going to sex her like my wife would sex.
That's right.
Okay.
Nevermind.
But I see what you're saying.
I mean, like, if you think of it as sort of like intimacy as the engagement of like, it's
not like direct.
I like the smothering.
I love you.
I am, I am.
Maybe that's why there's not an infinitive to, uh, to intimacy because I, you can't intimate
someone, right?
So you can only sort of like go indirectly and then that becomes a modality of intimacy,
right?
That sense of in, that indirection, the indirection stuff for me, I probably should
write about this because that's been so formative for me.
When I was in graduate school, it began very simply and strategically in its usual rhetorical
sense, which was when I wrote the words Deleuze and Derrida, there were a group of people
on my committee that just like glazed over and stopped reading.
And, and, and, you know, that those words just for people in the ret comp field would just
be like, we don't know who that fuck that is, but it's not our stuff.
Um, and so I, one of the initial reason for pursuing indirection for me was simply strategic,
like something that's not going to simply turn people off.
But what I realized in doing so even very early on was it forces me to learn and think with
this stuff in a totally different way than talking about them or writing about them ever
did.
Right.
So that, so I, I think that, I mean, even though I made fun of it or, you know, created a joke
out of it, I think that you're, there is a way in which that sense of indirection does
have, um, it, it affords something that directness doesn't.
I mean, maybe just say it that way.
Um, yeah.
I mean, that's, it's just an interesting, like, because it reminds me of the thing I wrote,
I don't know if you ever read this or the thing on silence, Nietzsche and silence, but it's
all, it's about friendship, right?
Like, and it's friendship as silence, not speaking about or to the friend about your friendship
as a condition of friendship.
Hmm.
Interesting.
Right.
Like, uh, that, that sense of an elliptical speaking, like indirect.
Oh, that's interesting.
I like that.
Speaking as a means of friendship.
So you did that at the last theory conference to you, my friends.
I think I might have, I think that's possible.
I don't remember, but I mean, I wrote the thing like six or seven years ago and it's just
been sitting.
I mean, it's like, that's something else I should probably put in this book.
Like, I mean, it's not, it's not anywhere.
It hasn't gone anywhere.
It's just been sitting.
So that's something.
Okay.
Well, I'll, I'll put that in the book.
I mean, yeah.
But that would be a way of talking about indirection of like what I'm talking about, what I'm trying
to do here is not what I'm talking about.
And that's a way of getting, nurturing or cultivating a relationship possibly.
A couple of thoughts.
One, um, and I've been trying to figure out how to think this without it turning into sort
of like Donald Murray, like autobiographical writing, but try to, trying to think about,
you know, like the different styles of intimacy that you've cultivated with Duluth and, and
Derrida over the years.
Cause I, and Nietzsche, like I think you've developed a certain intimacy with all three of
them and they're certainly not the same and not about like a mode of self-discovery,
but sort of like, what are the, what are the styles of these intimacies and what kinds
of life do they, they bring forth and both in sort of like your, like, like, what does
it afford to think, do this, make this engagement indirectly?
What does it afford to, to think that, um, that directly?
Um, I mean, it's just, it's an interesting question to me, right?
Like that, what, how it is that indirection could be a means of increased intimacy rather
than the caricatured version of go, you know, have sex with a neighbor, right?
Like, um, yeah, I don't, I don't really even know how to think about it.
And I don't really know how to, I certainly don't know how to write about it without it
being autobiographical.
And I have no interest in doing that.
Like, here's what I learned by writing, not writing.
I mean, have you guys, like, have you ever done that kind of, have you ever, like, for
instance, I remember very explicitly, I wanted to understand, uh, um, the concept of singularity.
Um, and this was in grad school.
So 20 years ago, that's what I'm like, I don't understand singularity.
I mean, now I feel like I could give a sort of definition of what singularity is, whatever,
but in order, so I wrote a seminar paper, but rather than the usual way of doing that would
be like, hey, there's this concept called singularity.
I don't understand it.
Let me write about it.
Right.
And that's not what I did.
I actually took this one line from Guattari's Chaosmosis book.
That was a reference to Bakhtin on the issue of singularity.
And I wrote an essay about Bakhtin, like just about Bakhtin and the result strategically,
this was one of those strategic choices.
The result was the professor, you know, Don Bailastowski read it and was like, oh, this
is really insightful about Bakhtin.
And it's like, well, it's not really about Bakhtin, even though it entirely was.
But, uh, I also felt like I kind of got, uh, I got more of a sense of singularity from
that then, then I would have gotten from simply acquiring a definition.
Yeah.
Like, like really, like not, not even bullshit, you know, like, ah, I have a sense of singularity
now.
That kind of brings me back to something we were talking about in terms of like Deleuze's
philosophy on writing and, you know, always having to choose, you know, that inexact word
to get it something that's just, you're never going to get it.
Right.
It's that, that age old problem.
Um, I was thinking about this in relation to, to my own research and realizing
that a lot of the time I miss very obvious things about opinion because I'm using, I've
always used DOXA as my entry point, as a way of indirecting my relationality to all of that.
Right.
And so I, I am often like struck dumb by just how obvious things are to other people about
something like opinion, because when I use opinion in my work, I sprinkle it in just to
kind of like give people something.
But to me, it almost doesn't mean much.
It like, cause I'm so far removed from, from that.
I'm like, yeah.
Like, I don't, I don't even know what opinion is.
Like I'm not, I'm not writing about opinion.
I'm writing about DOXA.
Right.
Exactly.
And so, yeah, it kind of comes to, and actually I was thinking about this with, um, what we
were reading today because sometimes I'm struck when he, he uses words like topos or even
locusts, you know, when he's thinking about surface.
And I was just really struck by some of the ways in which he was trying to emplace, emplace
something that has no place, but kind of has a vicinity and a domain that kind of gets back
to that problem of hovering, but I don't know.
So I was wondering about that, I guess.
There's some, there's something to the non-direct address that can cultivate a different kind of
relationship with something rather than sort of facing it head on, you know, like you're
in some kind of dialogue, like what we're doing.
I mean, that it's one kind of thing, but that there is something to really, frankly, it's
just indirection.
Like, you know, what I'm talking about is not really what I'm talking about.
And that's not as a sort of, so one, another way of understanding that is, oh, you've got
a secret that you're not, you know, divulging to people because you, or, or it's like an
inside joke that only those who are in the know have access to.
Because I've gotten acute, like people have told me like that my work reads like that sometimes.
It reads like I, there's an insider's joke that I'm not letting people into.
And, and I mean, I, I kind of bristle at that.
Well, I, I bristle at it a lot, but I mean, part, partly because like I'm not, there's
nothing, there's no secret that I'm keeping.
There's no sort of secret thing.
It's just that like my way of trying to understand singularity is to, is usually not to say what
is singularity for whatever reason.
I mean, you know, like, but I think that there are, there are interesting ways in which I
can develop a sense of singularity and its operation only through that indirection and
not through the direct, at the same time, everything that I'm complaining about here is precisely
that I don't have direct cognitive apprehension of the things that he's working with.
Right.
So I wonder if it would help to, to bracket the, the geometric language of direction, indirection,
sort of like vectors and lines of flight.
Yeah.
Think about it grammatically for a second, which is to say, like, what would it be to engage
something non-subjectively?
I mean, because that's exactly what you're saying.
I want to engage this thing as a subject, which now creates a particular, like, I mean,
tropologically, topologically, it is now sort of creating a pre-cut and pre-determining a,
a, um, you know, uh, the, the, the field that you can engage.
And, you know, it's not, it's not worse, but it's certainly not better.
It is just, uh, now to go back to the, the geometric language, like treating something as
a subject or nominalizing something, asking the ontological question of what are you, you
know, what is, right.
That, you know, that is one vector of approach among others.
And so perhaps, you know, we can just stop privileging that.
And not necessarily, exactly.
Right.
And not necessarily as the paradigm, right.
The paradigmatic approach.
Or like, I mean, the different question is how does this thing get activated or what
does it resonate with?
Right.
And so now when you're talking about, I mean, this actually goes back to the, the, the question
of intimacy and interpersonal relations where it's like when, when you try to directly, you
know, make intimacy, then it is creating the subject out of the, the object of the intimacy.
And now that creates a very particular relationship.
But there are a whole lot of different ways that that relationship can resonate through,
you know, less direct mechanisms.
Right.
So that's a really, so, so in fact, what you're saying is that my joke, right.
Like totally misunderstood the problem, which is that it's not a question of sex.
Sex is the direct address.
Right.
Of intimacy.
It's a question of a different kind of interaction entirely.
One that may not even involve, may not even involve the other person, which is not to say
autoerotic, but it's just to say like, right.
Like, uh, so in that sense, my, my joke just mistook, like, you know, go, you know, go have
sex with, you know, like that was, well, no, it's not a question of a direct address or
non-address.
It's a, it, it is a question of, um, what do you, I mean, the cultivating an asubjective
resonance, which, uh, you know, whatever, maybe that's a cool phrase, but it's, it's
like, um, what, like, I'm just thinking of the equivalent, the kind of romantic equivalence
of like, Hey, just wash the dishes or, you know what I mean?
Like it's, it wouldn't have, it couldn't be, it couldn't be located in any act or any, um,
term because even like even take the term sex, like when you take it as the general subject
of the, of the, uh, of the sentence that now gets predefined, that now is going to come
at the person with all of its tropological expectations and histories, right.
That would be that subjective direct or usually, you know, a quiet, I mean, what can, it can
often be quite like scary and violent, right.
It's coming at me, but, uh, but that wouldn't necessarily, but, but when it doesn't become
when, when that activity is not the subject of, it is not the thing that is, is, it's not
the general term being instantiated in the particular, right.
Then it doesn't matter if it's actually doing the dishes or having the sex or watching
television or grabbing a pipe, right.
Then it doesn't, because you can do the exact same dynamic would be the do the dishes, right.
Or, but there's always a question of recognition in there too.
So for instance, I remember, I remember feeling the need when the book came out to put in a
marker for each chapter, like, like the imitation one of just saying, Hey, by the way, this is
a response to, um, Deleuze's Difference in Repetition, you know, Difference in Repetition
and to the dynamics that circulate through there.
And, and I even wrote a chunk in the intro where I said, like the, the relationships are
not always named, you know, and the targets are not always named.
And naming them would do, would, would, you know, it's not just that like, I'm secretly
taking away from something or I'm smuggling them in.
It's that actually naming them would undermine a whole lot of what I'm doing.
It, and, but in the case of Deleuze or Derrida, like, I don't give a shit about, I mean,
they're dead, right.
Like, I don't give a shit about them recognizing it.
But if you're actually dealing with somebody with whom you have, you know, who's, who is
a subject, right?
Like the necessity of naming, like, Hey, I shout out to Nathaniel and Caddy for their
help.
You know what I mean?
Like, I feel the need to, to, to still to, to do that, I guess.
Um, I thought about that when we were doing the thing for Jeff, when you and I were writing
that thing of like, what are ways in which I can sort of, I don't know if it's signal
or think through the importance of my relationship to him.
Um, and also I'm writing a thing about a book that he wrote, right?
Like what are, so that was, that was an interesting negotiation because for instance, had I been
left to my own devices, I wouldn't have written, let, let's say there was a, uh, a Festspiel
or whatever those fucking things are called, you know, those things like we're going to, uh,
it, uh, um, a book of Nealon's former students or something, you know, so if they asked me to
write for something like that, I promise you, I would have written about something completely
unrelated to Jeff and would have had nothing to do with him.
And I would have done that on purpose for, for the reasons that we are talking about here.
And everybody else would have been like, oh, John's being esoteric, weird guy.
And it's like, but I, so I would want to also mark in some way that like, I'm not just
being esoteric, weird guy.
Like I am also like, this is a genuine, sincere effort at intimacy that's different than the
one that says, here's why Jeff is so great.
Right.
No, I actually, I actually did this because when, when John Shild and Christine Ferris were
retiring, they had like a whole retirement shindig where they invited us, their, their former
students to come and kind of like, it was going to be like kind of epideictic thing, but also
they gave us tasks.
Right.
And so we were all kind of put into like, some people were going to talk about their legacy
in terms of teaching some, you know, whatever.
And I was put in the research one.
Right.
And, um, I wasn't given anything except for like, what are maybe the directions for rhetoric
and composition?
Um, and I was like, fuck directions.
That's not a John Shild thing.
Like John Shild, don't give a fuck about directions.
Like I'm going to go with theory and, and, and how I kind of went about thinking about that
was in terms of desire lines.
Right.
Like paths that are, you know, formed out of, out of desire, but are not necessarily in
their, maybe direction adjacent maybe, but, um, but the way in which I was kind of very,
you know, lovingly and respectfully talking about how I understand theory was me putting
my care for John into the universe.
Right.
It wasn't about John, but it was everything about John.
So, I mean, what kind of response?
I mean, did you get anyone's like, what the fuck was that?
Or.
Yeah.
And did you get that from John?
No, John loved it.
Yeah.
No.
I see.
But in some ways that's actually who, that's who the target is, right?
Yeah, exactly.
You know?
Yeah.
The person tweeting about it being like, what?
Whatever.
This is, this is one of my favorite lines in all of Deleuze is where he says, uh, in an
interview and he's like, um, think of the writer that you're writing about so hard that they
could be neither an object, meaning something that you're writing about or a subject, meaning
a person who is instantiated.
Um, and, and he says, uh, this is the tribe, this is a relationship I tried to cultivate with
Kafka.
And as a result, no one liked the book, right?
Like, you know, because it was.
It was an effort in, in this regard of like, to, to, to think about, I mean, that's his
terminology to think about some, someone so hard, someone in their work so hard that they
are not an object of study, nor are they a person in that simple subjective way.
And that that was the only way that he knew of, but try, I think his phrasing was try to
give them a little bit of the joy, uh, that they, that they knew how to give to the world
to try to give them some sort of joy and, uh, or some sort of pleasure or whatever.
And so we, I, I, that's what I did with Kafka.
And the result was the book, please no one.
And, but it's like, it would have pleased Kafka.
I mean, that's, that's the hope there, right?
Like it would have, it would have been joyful for Kafka.
Um, I mean, theoretically, uh, or some dimension of Kafka, but nobody else likes that.
So it's, that's, that's the hard thing is because you do also want to market and be like,
this is for you, man.
You know, this is, you want it to be recognized as that too, right?
Like not simply unrecognized.
Yeah.
I did have like, I mean, I had one turn toward the end where, um, I was kind of looking at
introductory paragraphs from, uh, philosophy and rhetoric.
And I was kind of using that inventionally as a way of being like, I don't understand how
this is considered theory for this reason.
I don't understand how this is considered.
And then I got to, and then I got to a paragraph from actually John's writing and I was like,
okay, this feels like a desire line and here's why.
Um, and so, and so I did, I did have a moment where I did exactly like I turned to John.
The tie-in, right.
Tie, yeah, the tie-in.
But, um, otherwise it was, John was haunting, haunting, lovingly haunting the, the film.
But how did you feel like in terms of writing that, as opposed to saying like, I'm going
to do a close reading of an important essay of John's.
Right.
Like, um, because I, I'm guessing that's what other people did or they gave, uh, autobiographical
or biographical anecdotes of their encounters with John or something like that.
So, um, but my guess is that those people, the people who would do particularly the biographical
Ones wouldn't even recognize your thing as being, they would think that it's like, well,
that's just Caddy being all about herself rather than, I mean, I'm guessing, I mean, is
that the kind of responses that you got or what kinds of responses do you get from those
folks?
Um, I mean, like I said, there was, there was one person who, who tweeted something about
how, I think the, the general, that, that tweet seemed to be kind of like, it, it seems
like this was kind of pithy, you know, or like just self-serving or whatever, not, not like
in a negative way, but, um, otherwise I got very generous feedback from, from the people
who were there.
And, and I mean, I, again, I didn't really, yeah, I didn't really care also, like I thought
I was doing something really interesting.
If I, we should, oh my gosh, I was thinking about this the other day.
I think that the field, the field, whatever the fuck, um, I, we really need a collection
on doing theory, unlike what people think of as, as, as writing theory.
Don't you think?
And then this kind of like, I mean, your essay on like indirection would be perfect for something
like that.
I think.
Yeah.
Well.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, I, hey, I'm all for it.
Okay.
Come on, editor.
Put that together.
Daniel?
Enculturation.
Let's, let's throw it to the, to the least tenured among us to do all the work.
Yeah, right.
Um.
Now that's, that's a sign of not caring.
We'll see you next time.